Add selector user guide (#1419)
skrub-data/skrub: doc/selectors.rst

.. _selectors:

Skrub Selectors: helpers for selecting columns in a dataframe
=============================================================

In Skrub, a selector represents a column selection rule, such as "all columns that have
numerical data types, except the column ``'User ID'``".

Selectors have two main benefits:

- Expressing complex selection rules in a simple and concise way by combining selectors
  with operators. A range of useful selectors is provided by this module.
- Delayed selection: passing a selection rule which will evaluated later on a dataframe
  that is not yet available. For example, without selectors, it is not possible to
  instantiate a :class:`~skrub.SelectCols` that selects all columns except those with
  the suffix 'ID' if the data on which it will be fitted is not yet available.

Usage
-----

Here is an example dataframe. Note that selectors support both Pandas and Polars
dataframes:

>>> import pandas as pd

> >>> df = pd.DataFrame(

Reviewer: I'm wondering if there should be a line explaining that "this is a dataset about page sizes", I find it a bit unusual and did not understand what the numbers were saying the first read through

.. _selectors:

Skrub Selectors: helpers for selecting columns in a dataframe
=============================================================

In Skrub, a selector represents a column selection rule, such as "all columns that have
numerical data types, except the column ``'User ID'``".

Selectors have two main benefits:

> - Expressing complex selection rules in a simple and concise way, because they

Reviewer: How about

Expressing complex selection rules in a simple and concise way by combining selectors with operators. A range of useful selectors is provided by this module.

  can be combined with operators and a range of useful selectors is provided by
  this module.

> - Delayed selection: passing a selection rule, to be evaluated later on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Delayed selection: passing a selection rule that will be evaluated later on a
```

  dataframe that is not yet available. For example, without selectors
  it is not possible to instantiate a :class:`~skrub.SelectCols` that selects "all

>   columns that have numerical data types, except the column ``'User ID'``", if the

Author: better? "all columns except column with the suffix ``'ID'``"

>   columns that have numerical data types, except the column ``'User ID'``", if the

Reviewer: to me the delayed selection is important when there are transformations that add or modify columns so that they're different from the input, so casting to a different datatype or maybe generating features with one of the encoders (which is why I mentioned datetimes) 

"all columns except those with the suffix ID" looks to me like something that could be done immediately

  data on which it will be fitted is not yet available.

Usage
-----

Here is an example dataframe –note that selectors support both Pandas and Polars
dataframes:

>>> import pandas as pd
>>> df = pd.DataFrame(
...     {
...         "height_mm": [297.0, 420.0],
...         "width_mm": [210.0, 297.0],
...         "kind": ["A4", "A3"],
...         "ID": [4, 3],
...     }
... )

:func:`~skrub.selectors.cols` is a simple kind of selector which selects a fixed list of
column names:

>>> from skrub import selectors as s
>>> mm_cols = s.cols('height_mm', 'width_mm')
>>> mm_cols
cols('height_mm', 'width_mm')

This selector can then be passed to a :func:`~skrub.selectors.select` function:

>>> s.select(df, mm_cols)
   height_mm  width_mm
0      297.0     210.0
1      420.0     297.0

It can also be passed to :class:`~skrub.SelectCols` or :class:`~skrub.DropCols`

> to create flexible scikit-learn pipelines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be embedded in scikit-learn pipelines:
```

>>> from skrub import SelectCols
>>> SelectCols(cols=mm_cols).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm  width_mm
0      297.0     210.0
1      420.0     297.0

Last but not least, selectors can be passed to skrub expressions when applying an
estimator with the :func:`skrub.Expr.skb.apply` function:

>>> import skrub
>>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
>>> skrub.X(df).skb.apply(StandardScaler(), cols=mm_cols)
<Apply StandardScaler>
Result:
―――――――
  kind  ID  height_mm  width_mm
0   A4   4       -1.0      -1.0
1   A3   3        1.0       1.0

Type of selectors
-----------------

:func:`~skrub.selectors.all` is another simple selector, especially useful for default
arguments since it keeps all columns:

>>> SelectCols(cols=s.all()).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm  width_mm kind  ID
0      297.0     210.0   A4   4
1      420.0     297.0   A3   3

Selectors can be combined with operators, for example if we wanted all columns
except the "mm" columns above:

>>> SelectCols(s.all() - s.cols("height_mm", "width_mm")).fit_transform(df)
  kind  ID
0   A4   4
1   A3   3

> Several kinds of selectors are provided by this module, to select columns by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module provides several kinds of selectors, which allow to select columns by
```

>>> SelectCols(s.glob('*_mm')).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm  width_mm
0      297.0     210.0
1      420.0     297.0

>>> SelectCols(~s.glob('*_mm')).fit_transform(df)
  kind  ID
0   A4   4
1   A3   3

>>> SelectCols(s.glob('*_mm') | s.cols('ID')).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm  width_mm  ID
0      297.0     210.0   4
1      420.0     297.0   3

>>> SelectCols(s.glob('*_mm') & s.glob('height_*')).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm
0      297.0
1      420.0

>>> SelectCols(s.glob('*_mm') ^ s.string()).fit_transform(df)
   height_mm  width_mm kind
0      297.0     210.0   A4
1      420.0     297.0   A3

The operators respect the usual short-circuit rules. For example, the
following selector won't compute the cardinality of non-categorical columns:

>>> s.categorical() & s.cardinality_below(10)
(categorical() & cardinality_below(10))

Advanced selectors: filter and filter_names
-------------------------------------------

:func:`skrub.selectors.filter` and :func:`skrub.selectors.filter_names` allow
selecting columns based on arbitrary user-defined criteria. These are also used to
implement many of the other selectors provided in this module.

> :func:`skrub.selectors.filter` accepts a predicate that is called with a column (pandas

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence

Author: Better?
```
:func:`skrub.selectors.filter` accepts a function which will be called on a column
(i.e., a Pandas or polars Series). This function must return ``True`` if the column
should be selected.
```
